---
layout: post
title: "XSS"
categories: JavaScript, xss
tags: xss
author: Curlme
mathjax: true
---

* content
{:toc}


{% raw %}
# XSS vs CSRF

In this section, we will explain the difference between `XSS` and `CSRF`, and discuss whether `CSRF token` can help defend against `XSS` attacks.


## What is the difference between XSS and CSRF

The cross-site scripting attack `XSS` allows the attacker to execute arbitrary JavaScript in the victim's browser.

Cross-site request forgery `CSRF` allows an attacker to fake a victim user to perform actions they did not intend to perform.

The consequences of `XSS` vulnerabilities are usually more serious than `CSRF` vulnerabilities:
-`CSRF` usually only applies to a subset of the operations that the user can perform. Usually, many applications implement `CSRF` defense, but ignore one or two exposed operations. On the contrary, a successful XSS attack can usually perform any operation that the user can perform, regardless of the function in which the vulnerability is generated.
-`CSRF` can be described as a "one-way" vulnerability, because although the attacker can induce the victim to make an HTTP request, they cannot retrieve the response from the request. In contrast, `XSS` is "two-way" because the script injected by the attacker can make arbitrary requests, read the response, and transmit data to an external domain chosen by the attacker.


## Can CSRF token defend against XSS attacks?

Some `XSS` attacks can indeed be defended by effectively using `CSRF token`. Suppose there is a simple reflection type `XSS` vulnerability, which can be exploited as follows:
```
https://insecure-website.com/status?message=<script>/*+Bad+stuff+here...+*/</script>
```

Now, suppose that the vulnerable function contains a `CSRF token`:
```
https://insecure-website.com/status?csrf-token=CIwNZNlR4XbisJF39I8yWnWX9wX4WFoz&message=<script>/*+Bad+stuff+here...+*/</script>
```

If the server correctly verifies the `CSRF token` and rejects the request without a valid token, then the token can indeed prevent the exploitation of this XSS vulnerability. The key point here is that "cross-site scripting" attacks involve cross-site requests, so by preventing attackers from forging cross-site requests, the application can prevent minor attacks on the `XSS` vulnerability.

Here are some important notes:
-If the reflection type `XSS` vulnerability exists in any other functions on the site that are not protected by the `CSRF token`, the `XSS` vulnerability can be exploited in a conventional manner.
-If there is an exploitable `XSS` vulnerability anywhere on the site, the vulnerability can be used to enable the victim user to perform operations, even if these operations themselves are protected by the `CSRF token`. In this case, the attacker's script can request the relevant page to obtain a valid `CSRF token`, and then use the token to perform protected operations.
-`CSRF token` does not protect stored `XSS` vulnerabilities. If the page protected by the `CSRF token` is also the output point of the stored `XSS` vulnerability, the `XSS` vulnerability can be exploited in the usual way, and when the user accesses the page, the `XSS` payload will be executed.

{% endraw %}
